New article for Blazor CSS isolation (#19956)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/components/css-isolation.md

In order to guarantee style isolation when bundling occurs, `@import` blocks are not supported with scoped CSS files.

## Child component support

By default, CSS isolation only applies to the component you associate with `MyComponent.razor.css`. To apply changes to a child component, use the `::deep` combinator in the parent component's `razor.css` file.

The following example shows a parent component containing a child component, `CounterChild`, in `Pages/Counter.razor`:

```razor
@page "/counter"

<h1>Counter</h1>

<div>
    <p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

    <button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

    <CounterChild />
</div>
```

The `CounterChild` component contains an `h1` element, to be styled the same as `Counter`:

```razor
@page "/counter-child"

<h1>Child component</h1>
```

Update the `h1` declaration in `Counter.razor.css` with the `::deep` combinator to signify the `h1` style declaration must cascade to the child component.

```css
::deep h1 { 
    color: brown;
    font-family: Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
}

```

> The `h1` style now applies to both the `Counter` and `CounterChild` components without the need to create a separate scoped CSS file for `CounterChild`.

Reviewer: In this case the selector applies to the Counter and CounterChild components because the `h1`s are not at the top level, but are wrapped into a `div`. `::deep` only selects elements that are descendants of an element with the generated attribute (`[b-...]`).

````razor
@page "/counter"
<h1>Not styled by scoped CSS with ::deep</h1>
<div>
    <h1>Styled by scoped CSS</h1>
</div>
````

````html
<!-- [b-a92ooaz332] h1 doesn't match this element -->
<h1 b-a92ooaz332>Not styled by scoped CSS with ::deep</h1> 
<div b-a92ooaz332>
    <h1 b-a92ooaz332>Styled by scoped CSS</h1>
</div>
````

`h1, ::deep h1` would select any `h1` in both components. I think this behavior should be documented somewhere.

Author: I actually found that if you do this, the parent component gets styled `red` and the children `brown`...

```css
::deep h1 {
    color: red;
}

h1 {
    color: brown;
}
```

...and precedence matters! That is, if you do `h1` first and `::deep h1` second, the parent and child selector is both red.

Then to make them all red, `::deep h1` works without the need to do `h1, ::deep h1`. I would appreciate if you gave this a shot to prove I'm not (too) crazy. 😀

Reviewer: The declaration order should not matter here. `::deep h1` is translated to `[b-xxx] h1`. This selector is more specific ([specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity)) than `h1`, so `::deep h1` overrides `h1` when both selectors apply to an element.

Using the Counter and CounterChild components, the h1 is brown in the parent component, and red in the child component. It's the same if you change the declaration order.

Let's have fun with the `::deep` pseudo-selector 😊

For all examples 
- the style is `::deep h1 { color: red; }`
- the child component is `<h1>Child component</h1>`

### Example 1

````
<h1>Counter</h1>
<div>
    <CounterChild />
</div>
````

Parent h1: unstyled. Child h1: red.

### Example 2

````
<h1>Counter</h1>
<CounterChild />
````

Parent h1: unstyled. Child h1: unstyled.

### Example 3

````
<div>
    <h1>Counter</h1>
    <CounterChild />
</div>
````

Parent h1: red. Child h1: red.

### Example 4

````
<div>
    <h1>Counter</h1>
</div>
<CounterChild />
````

Parent h1: red. Child h1: unstyled.

> "To apply changes to a child component, use the `::deep` combinator in the parent component's `razor.css` file."

This doesn't seem to be true for example 2 or 4. If you can validate my examples, I think it would make sense to add a note that a `div` is required for the `::deep` selector to work as expected.

Reviewer: I've edited the first part of my previous comment because I misread your comment :(

Author: Thanks for the great clarificationsI I'll make my updates tonight after the day job and push to the PR.

Author: Updated the docs with my latest push. Thanks again for the great feedback!

Reviewer: The latest version is very clear! Good job :)

For example, in the Visual Studio Task Runner Explorer, configure existing preprocessor compilation as a **Before Build** task.

Many third-party NuGet packages, such as [Delegate.SassBuilder](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Delegate.SassBuilder/), can compile SASS/SCSS files at the beginning of the build process before CSS isolation occurs—preventing any additional configuration.

For example, when you add a `MyComponent.razor.scss` file, these tools can compile SASS changes to `MyComponent.razor.css` at the beginning of the build process. With that step complete, the isolation step is ready. 

## CSS isolation configuration

When working with isolated CSS, no configuration is required. However, configuration is available for advanced scenarios or when there are dependencies on other existing tools or workflows.

### Customize scope identifier format

By default, scope identifiers use the format `b-<10-character-string>`. To customize the scope identifier format, update the project file to a desired pattern.

```xml
<ItemGroup>

>     <None Update="MyComponent.razor.css" CopyToOutputDirectory="my-custom-scope-identifier" />

Reviewer 2: `CopyToOutputDirectory` this seems wrong.

Author: @javiercn - definitely is. I replaced `CopyToOutputDirectory` to `CssScoped` in my latest push. Apologies for the brain fart (probably muscle memory from years of `CopyToOutputDirectory`).

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor CSS isolation
author: daveabrock
description: Learn how CSS isolation allows you to scope CSS to your components, which can simplify your CSS and avoid collisions with other components or libraries.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 09/17/2020
no-loc: ["ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: blazor/components/css-isolation
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor CSS isolation

By [Dave Brock](https://twitter.com/daveabrock)

> Use cascading style sheets (CSS) isolation to only apply styles to the current component. CSS isolation simplifies an app's CSS footprint by preventing dependencies on global styles, and also helps to avoid styling conflicts between other components or libraries.

Author: Changed to:

CSS isolation simplifies an app's CSS footprint by preventing dependencies on global styles, and also helps to avoid styling conflicts between other components or libraries. Use CSS isolation to only apply styles to the current component.

## Enable CSS isolation 

To define component-specific styles, create a `razor.css` file matching the name of the `.razor` file for the component. This `razor.css` file is a *scoped CSS file*. 

> For a `MyComponent` that has a `MyComponent.razor` file, create a file in the `Pages` folder called `MyComponent.razor.css`. The `MyComponent` value in the `razor.css` filename is **not** case-sensitive.

Author: Changed to:

For a `MyComponent` that has a `MyComponent.razor` file, create a file alongside your component called `MyComponent.razor.css`. The `MyComponent` value in the `razor.css` filename is **not** case-sensitive.

```css
/* /Pages/Counter.razor.rz.scp.css */
h1[b-3xxtam6d07] {
    color: brown;
}
```

Additionally, at build time a project bundle is created with the convention `StaticWebAssetsBasePath/MyProject.lib.scp.css`. This is referenced when projects are used for NuGet packages or a Razor Class Library, which both support CSS isolation. This `lib.scp.css` file is not published as a static web asset.

## Child component support

By default, CSS isolation only applies to the component you associate with `MyComponent.razor.css`. To apply changes to a child component, use the `::deep` combinator to any descendant elements in the parent component's `razor.css` file. The `::deep` combinator selects elements that are *descendants* of an element's generated scope identifier. 

The following example shows a parent component, called `ChildExample` in a file called `Pages/ChildExample.razor`, with a child component called `MyChild`:

`ChildExample.razor`:
```razor
@page "/child-example"

<div>
    <h1>Child Example</h1>
    <MyChild />
</div>
```

`MyChild.razor`:
```razor
@page "/first-child"

<h1>A Child Component</h1>
```

> Update the `h1` declaration in `MyComponent.razor.css` with the `::deep` combinator to signify the `h1` style declaration must apply to the parent component and its children.

Author: Updated confusion between the format `MyComponent.razor.css` and the example `ChildExample.razor.css`.

"By default, CSS isolation only applies to the component you associate with the format `MyComponent.razor.css`... The following example shows a parent component, called `ChildExample` in a file called `ChildExample.razor`, with a child component called `MyChild`."

```css
::deep h1 { 
    color: red;
}
```

> The `h1` style now applies to the `ChildExample` and `FirstChild` components without the need to create separate scoped CSS files for the child components.

Author: Mostly cleaned up from other comment, but changed to:

"The `h1` style now applies to the parent `ChildExample` and `FirstChild` component without the need to create separate scoped CSS files for the child component."

> [!NOTE]

> > The `::deep` combinator works only with descendant elements. The following HTML structure applies the `h2` styles to components as expected:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The `::deep` combinator works only with descendant elements. The following HTML structure applies the `h1` styles to components as expected:
```

And maybe include the CSS associated with this explanation?

>
>```razor
><h1>Child Example</h1>
><MyChild />
>```

## CSS preprocessor support

CSS preprocessors are useful with improving CSS development by utilizing features like variables, nesting, modules, mixins, and inheritance. While CSS isolation does not *natively* support CSS preprocessors such as Sass or Less, integrating them is seamless as long as preprocessor compilation occurs before Blazor rewrites the CSS selectors during the build process.

For example, in the Visual Studio Task Runner Explorer, configure existing preprocessor compilation as a **Before Build** task.

Many third-party NuGet packages, such as [Delegate.SassBuilder](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Delegate.SassBuilder/), can compile SASS/SCSS files at the beginning of the build process before CSS isolation occurs—preventing any additional configuration.

For example, when you add a `MyComponent.razor.scss` file, these tools can compile SASS changes to `MyComponent.razor.css` at the beginning of the build process. With that step complete, the isolation step is ready. 

## CSS isolation configuration

> When working with isolated CSS, no configuration is required. However, configuration is available for advanced scenarios or when there are dependencies on other existing tools or workflows.

Reviewer 3: This first sentence feels a little weird in conjunction with the next. Maybe say something like "CSS isolation is designed to work out-of-the-box, but provides configuration for some advanced scenarios..."

Author: Good point. Changed to:

CSS isolation is designed to work out-of-the-box, but provides configuration for some advanced scenarios—such as when there are dependencies on existing tools or workflows.

### Customize scope identifier format

By default, scope identifiers use the format `b-<10-character-string>`. To customize the scope identifier format, update the project file to a desired pattern.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <None Update="MyComponent.razor.css" CssScope="my-custom-scope-identifier" />
</ItemGroup>
```

> In this example, the scope identifier changes from `b-<10-character-string>` to `my-custom-scope-identifier`.

Reviewer 3: I would clarify that this is specific to CSS generated from `MyComponent.razor.css`.

Author: Changed to:

In this example, the CSS generated from `MyComponent.Razor.css` changes its scope identifier from `b-<10-character-string>` to `my-custom-scope-identifier`.

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor CSS isolation
author: daveabrock
description: Learn how CSS isolation allows you to scope CSS to your components, which can simplify your CSS and avoid collisions with other components or libraries.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 10/20/2020
no-loc: ["ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: blazor/components/css-isolation
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor CSS isolation

By [Dave Brock](https://twitter.com/daveabrock)

CSS isolation simplifies an app's CSS footprint by preventing dependencies on global styles and helps to avoid styling conflicts among components and libraries.

## Enable CSS isolation 

To define component-specific styles, create a `razor.css` file matching the name of the `.razor` file for the component. This `razor.css` file is a *scoped CSS file*. 

For a `MyComponent` component that has a `MyComponent.razor` file, create a file alongside the component called `MyComponent.razor.css`. The `MyComponent` value in the `razor.css` filename is **not** case-sensitive.

> For example to add CSS isolation to the `Counter` component in a sample app created from the Blazor project template, add a new file named `Counter.razor.css`, then add the following CSS:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example to add CSS isolation to the `Counter` component in the default Blazor project template, add a new file named `Counter.razor.css` along side the `Counter.razor` file, then add the following CSS:
```

Many third-party NuGet packages, such as [Delegate.SassBuilder](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Delegate.SassBuilder), can compile SASS/SCSS files at the beginning of the build process before CSS isolation occurs, and no additional additional configuration is required.

## CSS isolation configuration

CSS isolation is designed to work out-of-the-box but provides configuration for some advanced scenarios, such as when there are dependencies on existing tools or workflows.

### Customize scope identifier format

By default, scope identifiers use the format `b-<10-character-string>`. To customize the scope identifier format, update the project file to a desired pattern:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <None Update="MyComponent.razor.css" CssScope="my-custom-scope-identifier" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In the preceding example, the CSS generated for `MyComponent.Razor.css` changes its scope identifier from `b-<10-character-string>` to `my-custom-scope-identifier`.

> ### Change base path for static web assets

Reviewer 3: Is this the right place to include this heading?

Author: Yeah, there's no natural way unless we include it in the main section where it's discussed. I personally wanted to save the config to the end as it is optional and probably rarely used.
